Leah Boyle 
NEUR 265: Neural Data Analysis 
Professor Hallock 
30 January 2026 

Intro Essay 

	Early on in my academic life, I was introduced to programming. When I was in middle school, I used the Scratch program to code using an interface that had visuals and puzzle blocks. Shortly after in high school, I took AP computer science (CS) which initially spurred my interest in it and inspired my degree in college. Since Freshman year of college, I have taken the classes required for the major and have the associated experience. This includes various languages such as Java, C, C++, etc. I also code in my free time for research and for previous internships I have completed. I have minimal experience in python however, as it is not part of the Lafayette CS curriculum for a class. My python experience mostly comes from these out-of-the-classroom projects. 
	As you may assume, I do very much enjoy coding. Although some CS majors don’t enjoy the practice of it as much as what it can accomplish, I like both. I am generally still apprehensive about it because there is much that I do not know. Yet, the opportunity to learn and grow excites me. In my opinion, there are minimal skills necessary to become a proficient coder. They include hard work, curiosity, problem solving, and patience. Generally speaking, anyone can code if you sit down and devote the time. However, it is much easier to learn if you are curious and willing to seek out help using a number of resources, namely the internet. Coding also requires a lot of logical thinking, which is where problem solving comes in handy. Learning and developing a system to approach complex problems or troubleshoot an issue is essential. Lastly, patience is extremely important. If I had a nickel for every time I wanted to throw my laptop out a window when I was coding, I would have several hundred dollars. Building patience will prevent quitting in a fit of rage when errors inevitably present themselves. I feel less comfortable speaking on data science, but my guess is that it would require similar skills. What might differ is that data science often requires more specialized knowledge in another subject that the data being processed is derived from. Data scientists likely require less curiosity into how computers and machines work, but more curiosity about the subject they are employing the use of machines to explore. 
	Even though I do have experience, I hope to gain a better understanding of python from this class. I also hope that this class will bridge the gap I have between my Neuroscience major and CS major. I have felt that they have been mostly separated up until this point. Further, I rarely get the opportunity to work with data, particularly neuro-related data. Lastly, as a semi-proficient coder, I hope this class offers me the opportunity to serve my classmates as a leader or helper if the technical aspect becomes challenging. I am excited to use my experience to aid the learning of other students, and hope that they will also aid me in elements of the course I am less familiar with. 
